
Those few recipes illustrate the logic of using bacon, and may serve as inspiration for your own practices.

Tell me about your recipes so that I may share them there.

# Open your lib's doc

Let's first assume your `bacon.toml` file has been generated by a recent version of bacon.

Then you can launch bacon on its default task, then when you want to check the doc, hit the <kbd>d</kbd> key: as soon as the doc compiles, it's opened in your browser and bacon switches back to the previous job.

If you want to complete an old `bacon.toml` file, or just understand how it works, here's the relevant configuration:

The job:

```TOML
[jobs.doc-open]
command = ["cargo", "doc", "--no-deps", "--open"]
need_stdout = false
on_success = "back" # so that we don't open the browser at each change
```

And the key binding:

```TOML
[keybindings]
d = "job:doc-open"
```

# Configure Clippy lints

Jobs in the `bacon.toml` file are specific to your projects, there's no reason not to adapt them for its specificities.

You may for example want to tune the clippy rules:

```TOML
[jobs.clippy]
command = [
	"cargo", "clippy",
	"--",
	"-A", "clippy::collapsible_else_if",
	"-A", "clippy::collapsible_if",
	"-A", "clippy::field_reassign_with_default",
	"-A", "clippy::match_like_matches_macro",
]
need_stdout = false
```

You may also add some modifiers on spot sessions, eg

```bash
bacon clippy -- -W clippy::pedantic
```

Note that bacon doesn't need to be killed and relaunched when you change the job config.

# Check for other platforms

You may define specific jobs for specific targets:

```toml
[jobs.check-win]
command = ["cargo", "check", "--target", "x86_64-pc-windows-gnu"]
```

An habit I suggest: use <kbd>alt</kbd> keybindings for *alternative* platforms:

```toml
[keybindings]
alt-w = "job:check-win"
```

# Run binaries and examples

If you configure a `cargo run` job, you'll get the usual warnings and errors until there's none, at which point you'll have the output of your binary (assuming its terminal output is interesting).

```toml
[jobs.exs]
command = ["cargo", "run", "--example", "simple"]
allow_warnings = true
need_stdout = true
```

You may add `on_success = "back"` if you don't want the executable to run again on changes.

The `allow_warnings = true` line tells bacon to run the executable even when there are warnings. The excutable's output would come below warnings.

Some libraries and programs test whether they run in a TTY and remove style in such case.
Most usually, those applications provide a way to bypass this test with a launch argument.
Depending on the desired output, you would have to add a setting to the run job, for example
([more on this](https://github.com/Canop/bacon/issues/89#issuecomment-1257752297)):

```toml
command = ["cargo", "run", "--", "--color", "yes"]
```

# Long running programs

If your program never stops (e.g. a server), you may set `background = false` to have the output of `cargo run` immediately displayed instead of waiting for the program's end.

If you want your program to restart at every change, use `on_change_strategy = "kill_then_restart"`.

You may also want to change the way your program is killed if it should release resources.
In this case, you can replace the standard interrupution by specifying your own `kill` command.

Combining all those changes would give you something like this:

```toml
[jobs.webserver]
command = ["cargo", "run", "--", "--serve"]
need_stdout = true
background = false
on_change_strategy = "kill_then_restart"
kill = ["kill", "-s", "INT"]
```

Of course you don't have to take them all, depending on your precise case.

# Variable arguments

Launch arguments after the `--` aren't interpreted by bacon but sent unchanged to the job commands.

This may be useful to add an argument only for one run without changing the `bacon.toml` file.

For example

```bash
bacon -- --target x86_64-pc-windows-gnu
```

Be careful that some programs already require `--` so you may have to double it.
For example, to run `cargo test` with a single thread, you'll need

```bash
bacon test -- -- --test-threads=1
```

Another use case, a job which needs a complementary argument:


```toml
[jobs.ex]
command = ["cargo", "run", "--example"]
need_stdout = true
```

You would call it with

```bash
bacon ex -- example4578
```



